## [Welcome to lncQTL database](https://labinaili.shinyapps.io/lncQTL/)
Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are implicated in various human cancers. However, the genetic regulation and clinical significance of most lncRNAs in cancers remain unknown. In this study, we performed expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) mapping of lncRNA (elncRNA) in 11 cancer types using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data and characterized the role of elncRNAs in the setting of genomic location, cancer association and drug sensitivity prediction. Furthermore, we performed instrumental variable (IV) analysis to dissect the downstream biological perturbation by eQTL-elncRNA pairs. 10.86% cis-eQTLs and 1.67% trans-eQTLs were related to known cancer risk-associated loci. The elncRNAs were significantly enriched in lncRNA predictors of anticancer drug sensitivity. We found that the target genes affected by eQTL-elncRNA associations are enriched in the immune system processes. We also found that eQTL-elncRNA associations can impact the fraction of immune cell types. In ovarian cancer, the rs34631313-AC092580.4 pair was shown to associate with immune-related genes (FASLG/GZMM/PYHIN1TRAT1), and with increased percentages of CD8+ T cells and M1 Macrophage. The rs9546285(13q12.3)-LINC00426 pair was shown to associate with the expression of IFNG/TNIP3/DTHD1/ZBED2 and with a higher fraction of CD8+ T cells and a lower fraction of M2 macrophages in kidney renal clear cell carcinoma. We revealed the genetic regulation of lncRNAs in cancers and explored the role of eQTL-elncRNA in cancer immunology. Our findings provide valuable genetic and lncRNA biomarkers for drug sensitivity and cancer immune therapy. 


Citation
-----
*Please cite the following article if you use lncQTL in your research*:
* Li W, Xu C, Guo J, et al. Cis- and Trans-Acting Expression Quantitative Trait Loci of Long Non-Coding RNA in 2,549 Cancers With Potential Clinical and Therapeutic Implications. Front. Oncol. 2020; 10:
